
	     == SKRUI Draw color picker usability test ==

I've built a cartooning environment called SKRUI Draw that I've been
using as a platform for developing sketch-based interaction
techniques. It has several experimental techniques, but the one I want
to focus on for this study is the color picker.

To use the color picker, the user issues a ``stir'' gesture that
begins inside a colored region with the stylus. The color gradually
tweens from the starting color to the region's color. The rate of
change is a function of the pen's path length. This allows the user to
issue a short stir to change the color only a small amount, but to
change the color completely with a long gesture. As the user stirs, a
visual trail is left indicating the current color. The trails slowly
disappear over time by making the trail increasingly transparent. The
on-screen stylus cursor also changes to reflect the new
color. Hovering the stylus near existing work can help the user
determine if the color is satisfactory.

CHI is due on September 19th---if we are going to do this (and have a
paper that we are comfortable with submitting with our real names on!)
we will have to move very quickly.

We could run a study that compares how effectively users can pick
colors with (a) standard color choosers, and (b) the experimental
``stir'' approach.

There are several possible factors to consider:

  * Mouse or stylus?
  * Is the user comfortable with paint/drawing programs?
  * Is the user comfortable with tablet/pen hardware?

We might constrain the study to only involve test participants that
are graphic artists (or similar) that are comfortable with using a
stylus. If we could locate a Cintiq that would help immeasurably,
because having the input and output device be the same would remove a
potentially confounding factor. (Actually, it probably would help
measurably, but I don't want to measure that.)

The study might be structured like this: We give the user some
physical paint swatches (like the kind you get in the paint section of
a hardware store) and ask them to use a widget to choose that color as
closely as possible. We would measure three things: (a) how long it
took the user to choose the color, (b) how closely the chosen color
matches the target color, and (c) the user's attitude about the color
chooser.

A secondary task might be to give the user a hardcopy of a simple,
single-panel cartoon or cartoon-like image and ask them to draw
it. This would situate the color chooser in a more realistic task and
would let the user give a more informed response when we ask them
about their attitude.

We would need to give users a chance to play with each of the color
pickers before we begin measuring their use, especially the stirring
method since it will be totally new to them.
